# Predicting PS4 games’ review score

This repository contains the work I did for a project combining web scraping and text analysis. The goal was to collect PS4 game reviews from the [IGN.com] website (https://www.ign.com/news), and then perform text analysis to help building a model predicting the score attributed to the games reviewed.

As a first step, I applied web scraping techniques to create a dataset of PS4 game reviews. I collected a list of URLs from hundreds of PS4 game reviews. I then used these URLs to scan each review's page and collect the text of the review as well as additional information. In the second step, I applied data exploration and sentiment analysis techniques to determine what differentiates reviews of good and less good PS4 games. Finally, I built a regression model to predict the score awarded by the review using information such as the content of the review and its length.

If you're interested in this project, you can see a full description in a [post](https://gorinsimon.github.io/posts/2022/04/ps4-review-prediction) on my website.

Regarding the structure of the repository, the `function` folder contains the scripts and functions used to scrap IGN website and create the dataset. The URL of each PS4 game's review was collected using the code in `get_ps4_urls_script.R`. Then, each review's page has been scraped using the the code `get_reviews_script.R`. This function is basically a call to the function `get_review.R` that collects the content of a single page. The folder data contains two files: `ps4_games_url.csv` (a list with the url of all reviews collected) and `ps4_reviews.csv` (the dataset created for this project). Finally, the file `analysis.Rmd`contains all the steps of the project (EDA and modeling), as described in the [post](https://gorinsimon.github.io/posts/2022/04/ps4-review-prediction) on my website.

Do no hesitate to contact me if you can't find the information you are looking for or if you just want to chat about this project.